# computational-cognitive-neuroscience
Final Project for the computational cognitive neuroscience course (SOW-MKI49)

## Project
[Jonas & Kording (2016)](http://biorxiv.org/content/early/2016/05/26/055624) have applied popular data analysis methods from neuroscience to a simulated computer chip and showed that these methods don't reveal the hierarchy of information processing on the chip. They concluded that these methods might then also not be a very good fit for neuroscience. In this project, I have applied similar methods to a recurrent neural network character level language model. This model was trained on the War and Peace book by Leo Tolstoy. The idea is that a neural network might be more representative of the human brain than a computer chip. The final paper can be found [here](https://github.com/jvanvugt/computational-cognitive-neuroscience/raw/master/CCN_Paper_JorisvanVugt.pdf).

## Implementation notes
In `train_model.py`, I have implemented the model in Keras. It is in adapted version of the text generation from the Keras repository. The original model does sequence-to-one learning. I.e., the model is fed `N` characters and then has to predict the next character. In contrast, this model does sequence-to-sequence learning; it has to predict the next character at each point in time. This increases efficiency when learning, since more data can be utilized.

I have also made an implementation in *raw* NumPy to better monitor and control the activations in the network. This implementation can be found in `numpy_model.py`. Note that this implementation only contains the forward pass of the network, since it is not meant for training.

The `visualize_states` folder contains a web application for viewing cell activations for generated text. The files generated by running the numpy implementation should be put into that folder. The site requires running a (local) HTTP server (e.g. `$ python -m http.server`).

Using `plot_neurons.py`, the activations of the cells can be plotted.

### Dependencies
- Python 3
- Keras (with Theano or TensorFlow backend)
- NumPy
- matplotlib
- h5py
- sklearn